So, the number one question that I've
been getting since my last video on
OpenClaw is, "What are you actually
having your team of agents do?" And I
get it. Use cases for OpenClaw are what
everyone wants to know about. But here's
the thing. My use case is probably going
to be different from yours, and yours is
going to be different from the next
person's. So, the specific tasks that
you hand to your agents will always
depend on your business, your
operations, your goals. So yes, I will
share what I'm having my team of agents
work on, but more importantly, I want to
give you a framework, a mental model for
how to think about structuring your
operation so that you can actually hire
a team of OpenClaw agents to work in
your business. You know, I think that
most people are approaching OpenClaw
right now like a personal assistant or
maybe even an extension of themselves.
So they would chat with it and when they
need something, they give it a task and
wait for a result and repeat. But that's
not how I'm using it. I'm treating
OpenClaw like I'm creating real jobs in
my business and hiring agents to fill
them. So, there's a big difference
between these two mindsets. One keeps
you as the bottleneck. The other
actually scales. So, I want to frame
this through some lessons that I've
learned from hiring and managing real
teams in my businesses over the years.
You know, these principles carry over
more than you would think, but we'll
also look at where hiring agents has
some unique advantages over human hires
and how it changes the equation in some
really interesting ways. Now, if you're
new here, I'm Brian Castle. I help
builders navigate this transition to
working with AI. And every Friday, I
send my builder briefing. It's my free
five minute read where I break down what
I'm learning as I build and ship and
work with agents week to week. No hype,
just my take on what I'm seeing. You can
get yours by going to
buildermethods.com. And if you're
serious about building with AI, check
out buildermethods pro where you can
join our community of builders, get
access to my courses and live workshops.
You can join us by going to
buildermethods.com/pro.
Now, let me know if you've seen this. If
you've tried to delegate tasks to an
agent or even a human teammate, you
spend more time explaining how you want
it done than it would have taken you to
just do it yourself. and once they
finish, you're scrambling to find the
next thing to keep them busy. Well,
that's what happens when you delegate
tasks instead of defining jobs. What I
learned from building real teams is that
a hireer only works when there's a
steady flow of recurring needs that a
role needs to fill. Not one-off tasks
that you're pulling out of thin air, but
work that comes back on a predictable
cadence every day, every week, every
month. You hire when you have a job to
fill, and a job is a recurring need.
Now, here's where using something like
OpenClaw to hire agents changes the
equation in a really interesting way.
When you're hiring a person, you need to
justify that hire. You need enough
recurring work to fill a full-time role,
or at least enough for a meaningful
part-time commitment. You know, nobody's
going to take a job that's just two
tasks a week. So, you end up waiting
until the need is big enough to justify
the cost and the overhead of bringing
someone on. But when you're hiring
agents, that constraint doesn't exist.
You can start with one or two recurring
tasks. There's no minimum. There's no
salary to justify. You're paying pennies
or a couple dollars per task in token
costs. So, the threshold for creating a
new role is dramatically lower. And that
means you can start to scale your team
and your business way sooner than you
could have before. You don't have to
wait around until you can afford a
full-time hire to start getting
recurring work off your plate. You can
start freeing up bandwidth now and put
that time back into things that actually
grow your business. So, let me show you
how I'm applying this thinking to my
business. I identified two types of
recurring tasks that I could build into
jobs for my agents. First, there are
things that I'm currently doing that I
want to get off my plate. And second,
there are things that aren't currently
getting done, you know, missed
opportunities that I can now start to
take advantage of. Now, your business
might be different than mine, but
hopefully that mental model helps you go
through the same exercise that I did.
Now, in my case, research and content
production make up most of the big
recurring tasks in my work week. So,
naturally, that's where I started. My
starting point when figuring out my
recurring needs and processes in my
business, was to use Claude as a thought
partner uh in this process, which I'm
doing almost all the time these days.
So, here's an example of just one of of
many conversations that I've been having
with Claude over the past month. You
know, you can see it goes super deep
back and forth. It actually started with
with a prompt that looks like this. And
when you see a a big wall of text, that
usually means it was a voice recording.
And I think I was actually out on a walk
when I when I recorded this. So, you
know, sort of just like brain dumping my
uh my content production process and uh
and getting Claude's feedback on that
and then trying to kind of hammer out
what this would look like to have a team
helping me in the research and planning
and production of the content that I
produce. And so, you know, lot lots of
detail goes goes into this. Lots of uh
changing of direction and and trying
out, you know, different cadences,
different uh different mechanics, if you
will, in in this process. But
ultimately, that that messy back and
forth strategy conversation turns into
skills. And I'm going to talk more about
skills later in this video, how they
work into the system here. But, you
know, skills are are files that live in
my file system. And so this is where I
can actually work on them and then
continue to refine them using cloud
code. So here is a conversation that
I've been having with claude code to
rework and improve some of the processes
that are built into the skills that my
agents use in our task system. And so
once I have, you know, all these
customuilt skills which define processes
in my business, I'm able to use my task
system, another customuilt app I'll talk
more about later in this video. And you
can see each of these recurring tasks,
it doesn't actually include detailed
instructions. It just instructs the
agent to use a specific skill and then
carefully read its instructions and run
them there. So, I'll talk more about
that in just a minute.
So, you've identified your recurring
tasks. You know what jobs your agents
need to do, but here's where it's easy
to get stuck. You end up being the one
who kicks off every task. So every
morning you open up Telegram and send
your agent a message, hey, go do that
thing again and then you wait for the
result and then you do the same thing
again tomorrow. That's not delegating.
You're just creating another job for
yourself. Think about it this way. When
you hire someone to join your team, you
shouldn't need to remind them to do
their job every day. If you're doing
that, then either they're a bad employee
or you're not a great manager. I mean,
the whole point of hiring is to have the
needs of your business get handled
without you needing to initiate and
instruct and prompt every single time.
And for that you need systems. And when
it comes to running a team of agents, I
found that there are three systems that
you'll need to build. So your agents
need to know what to do and when to do
it without you being the one to press
go. Now OpenClaw has a built-in cron
system, but I found it to be too limited
for a multi- aent setup like mine. It
was hard to associate scheduled tasks
with specific agents on my team. So let
me show you this custom app that I built
called BMHQ. It's my builder methods HQ.
It's kind of like my mission control
dashboard for running my team of
multiple agents with OpenClaw. It's a
simple Rails app that's actually running
on the Mac Mini where OpenClaw is
running. It's got a bunch of features
built into it, but the one that I use
all the time every day is the tasks
board and it's set up like a simple
canban and it's got a few different
modes. This one is like the traditional,
you know, scheduled Q in progress and
done. But what I actually find more
useful is the view that breaks it down
by agent. And so these are all of the
recurring tasks that each agent is
responsible for. It has a system of
setting up task templates. So these are
the tasks that are used every time we
you know regenerate the recurring tasks.
Over here I can manage all the different
schedules for each task. So some of them
run daily, some of them run three times
a day, some of them run twice a week,
sometimes monthly. And I've got this
section called pre-instructions. So
these are things that I want kind of
prepended to uh every single task. But
then in the tasks themselves, I can add
instructions here. Although these
instructions tend to be really simple
because most of the time I'm just
pointing my agents to run a specific
skill that I've developed and put into
my system. And I'm going to talk more
about skills in just a minute. Now all
of the scheduling and dispatching of
tasks to my agents happens through my
own custom application. So we have this
section of code that that runs when a
task is scheduled to be done by an
agent. It dispatches that task directly
into the open cloud gateway. So it sort
of assembles the uh the task
instructions and assigns it to the right
agent. And so this system with a bit
more logic under the hood helps me
assign specific tasks to agents and have
those agents pick them up and execute
them and then those agents actually
message me back on Telegram when it's
done. Now another cool thing here is
that I can open up any individual task.
I see the activity status of everything
that happened here in the board, but I'm
also capturing all of the execution
logs. So these are the actual execution
logs from the open claw gateway. I
almost never need to look at these, but
if anything goes wrong or if we run into
a to a hitch with the process or with
the instructions, I can see everything
that happened with this task here in the
logs. I mean, it's really good for
troubleshooting issues. And, you know,
when you're getting up and running with
OpenClaw, especially if you're building
a sophisticated task system like this,
you know, it's really going to take a
few weeks to hammer out all the bugs and
all the quirks. That's sort of just the
nature of OpenClaw since it's still very
early. By the way, in my membership,
Builder Methods Pro, I'm doing a deeper
dive into the design and the structure
of this BMHQ app and all the other
custom projects that I do in there, I do
what I call ride along videos for
members. So, that covers the scheduling
system for your agents. Now, we've got
two more systems to figure out in order
for your team to really be productive.
So, when your agents are running jobs on
a recurring basis, you need them to
follow a consistent process every single
time. Now, the key is to be able to
improve your processes over time because
the first version of any workflow is
never going to be perfect. I'm
constantly reviewing the output and
identifying what's off and tightening up
my team's processes so that the next run
is better. Now, where should those
instructions for your agents live? You
could bake them into the task itself,
but then every time you want to improve
the process, you're editing or rewriting
task instructions. This is where skills
come in. If you've worked with skills in
cloud code or cursor or codecs, it's the
same concept here. Skills are just
folders with a markdown file, plus
optional reference files and scripts to
support the process. A skill is the
operating manual for a particular job.
It lives in one place, so it's easy for
you and for your agents to read. And
most importantly, it's where you go to
work on your business. Because when
you're improving your set of skills,
you're literally making your team of
agents better at their jobs. All right,
so let's dive into my growing collection
of customuilt skills which I'm using as
the processes or the operating manual
for my agents to work in my business.
Now to show you where these skills
actually live in the system, I'm opening
up a screen sharing window on the Mac
which is looking into the actual screen
of the Mac Mini which is sitting on my
desk. That's the Mac Mini where I'm
running OpenClaw. And so now I'm like
looking at that machine and this is a
finder window in there. I'm looking at
the home directory for the OpenClaw
user, which by the way is its own user
on the machine. It's not my user, not
the admin user. I talked more about the
security and the setup of my openclaw
system in my previous video on the
channel. So, here in the uh home
directory, I've got the OpenClaw folder
and inside that is the skills folder.
Now, I could have also put the skills
folder in the workspace folder, which
would work just fine. I put it up here
in case I ever go with like multiple
workspaces, then all the agents in all
the workspaces could access the same set
of skills. Currently, I'm actually
having multiple agents share the same
workspace. Another story that I that I
got into in the other video, but anyway,
all of the skills are here. Now,
something that you might notice if you
look closely, this is actually a sim
link. This folder is actually pointing
to a version of that folder which is
living in a Dropbox folder that I called
open claw. And that's where this this
skills folder along with a couple of
other key folders are sim linked into
there. So why did I set up that whole
sim link system? Well, that's how I can
easily access the same set of files on
one of my Macs. And so these files are
being synced using Dropbox. Again, I
talked more about my Dropbox sharing
system in the other video. It's actually
set up in a way so that OpenClaw only
has access to a certain subset of my
files. that doesn't have access to my
entire Dropbox and some other sensitive
stuff that's in there. Here is the set
of skills which is growing and and
constantly changing. Again, I'm
constantly working on and improving the
skills that run my agents in my
business. This one happens to be uh one
for content development. I'm still kind
of working this out, but this one is
basically just one big skill.md file uh
where we do some uh some kind of
planning and and research and drafting
of ideas. And I've got a couple of other
skills. A lot of them right now are
built around capturing all the activity
that I work on from transcripts that I
publish to my content to the code
activity that's happening in GitHub and
the code activity that I'm even
capturing from my claude code
conversations. So actually one of my
skills here is called code activity
capture. So here's the skill that one of
my agents handles and this has two
pieces to it. uh one is capturing the
activity from my cloud code sessions and
storing it into markdown files and the
other is actually running this script.
So here's a script that we wrote up to
pull all of the activity from all of my
GitHub repos. And again, it's going into
these like code summaries that my team
is then um documenting into my brain
system. I'm going to talk more about the
documentation and the markdown files
coming right up in this video. So again,
uh, skills are where I go to, uh, tinker
and and work on my processes. And for
most of the time, I actually use claude
code to help me with that task of going
through and making improvements to my
skills. So, you know, I'll usually like
prompt in here to talk about, you know,
what I want to change in my operation or
my system or even some details like how
I want the agents to craft their
messages back to me or or the sequence
that I want them to work in. I'll
collaborate with cloud code on those
changes and have them done directly into
the skills files and then my team works
off of these. So over in my tasks board
which lives in my my BMHQ dashboard here
again if I look at the instructions on
any of these tasks, I could have given
this agent all the detailed
instructions, but instead I'm pointing
this agent to go to my content radar
scan skill. That's a that's a skill
where my marketing agent is going to
scan for announcements from companies
and people that I want to follow in the
industry to stay up on some research
tasks. So, uh, this agent, uh, collects
that kind of stuff and puts it into a
report that helps me stay on top of
stuff, but also helps my team and I
draft ideas for content. So, that is a
highle look at how I'm putting these
skills together. At this time, I'm not
going to be, you know, releasing these
skills as like an open source thing
because they're they're just changing so
much from day to day and they're and
they're highly personalized to my
business. But again, inside my
membership, I talk more about how I
structure these operations and I and I
will be doing more of that in the
future. Just wanted to give you this
highle look for now. So, we figured out
our scheduling system. We've set up
processes for our agents using skills.
Now for the final piece.
When your agent finishes a task, where
does their output go? How do you know it
was done? How do you review it? Now, we
know that OpenClaw is built around your
chat sessions with agents. But that's
only one piece of this. Sure, I want my
agents to proactively message me about
updates on the tasks that they're
working on. And in my task instructions,
I even dial in exactly how I want those
messages sent to me. But more
importantly, the work that my agents and
I do together has to produce artifacts.
And in this new world of teaming up with
agents, it's best that we start to
organize our business around markdown
files. So to make that easier, I built
myself an app that I call Brainown. It's
a markdown editor and viewer that lets
me and my agents send links to our
markdown files that live in our shared
Dropbox. This makes it much easier than
having to remote into the Mac Mini and
locate those files and open them in a
text editor. You know, in 2026, it's
actually easier and better to just build
your own tools to power your business.
Now, I currently use Claude Code
primarily to build my tools. Could I
just have OpenClaw agents build my
tooling for me? Sure. But I actually see
that as a core part of what I do. I'm
working on my business by building these
systems that enable me to delegate jobs
to agents. So, here's a look at my
Telegram where I have all four of my
agents in a dedicated agents folder
separate from my humans folder. Um, and
here is my chat with Gumbo. That's my
general assistant. And so, uh, you can
see in the most recent one, uh, he did
his normal intake processing where he's
capturing all the activity in my
business and storing it into markdown
files. And when he does, he links me to
these markdown files that live on my
system. So where do these links actually
point to? Well, they actually point to
markdown files on my Brainown app. So if
I click this link, it'll open up in my
Brainown app. Now, you know, I'm still
working on the styling of this. And this
happens to be my daily note that my
agent will uh will will sort of compile
as the day goes on. Today is still in
progress. So, and so here's one from a
few days ago. You know, some items for
me to take a look at. This is one part
of the brain system that helps us
capture uh summaries of what's going on
that we can then use in content
production and and other strategic
planning stuff. But now, what I'm seeing
here is a file which I could, you know,
edit and I can do things in. But that's
a file that actually lives on my file
system. These are actual just markdown
files that live in the brain. All of
this is accessible in the file system
for my agents and for me to work on. But
it's also really easy for me to just
receive a message from Telegram and then
hop right into uh Brainown and then be
able to use this to uh you know quickly
get to some of my files and folders. So
the Brainown app actually integrates
with Dropbox and that's how we sync
between what's actually on our file
systems and here in this easy to use app
which you know I'm still refining it but
it is you know it's all mobile friendly.
I like to use it on my mobile device a
lot and you know jot down notes and read
the notes that my agents are sending me
from Telegram. And by the way, I can
also capture new notes by writing out a
new note or using a voice recording or
uploading a recording or files and
images. All of that easily gets captured
into markdown and files that gets synced
into Dropbox. So, it's a really easy
thing. I've only been working on this
for a few days and it's just a really
good example of a customuilt tool that
helps me run my operation with my
agents. Now, you'll probably hear me
continue to repeat this, but the real
value of OpenClaw, whether you're
running a solo business or a larger
company, is to think of it like an
employee, or even better, a team of
employees that fill real job functions
in your business. The difference now is
that getting started is more a matter of
building the right systems rather than
needing to justify taking on the cost
and the commitment of additional
full-time salaries. Now, like I said,
the jobs that I'm hiring my OpenClaw
agents for are less about coding and
more about freeing me up to spend my
time building tools and improving the
systems that help me grow my business.
So, day-to-day, I'm still very much a
builder, and Cloud Code continues to be
my go-to for being able to design and
build any tool that I want in a matter
of days. Now, if you're new to building
your own tools using Cloud Code, now is
a great time to become a builder. I made
a video a couple weeks ago to show you
how in 2026 building with cloud code
doesn't have to be over complicated.
Check that out and let me know if you
find these videos helpful. So, right
after you hit subscribe on the channel,
I'll see you over there next. Let's keep
building.